Rearrange the sequence of yum update procedures (#2582)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_managing-packages-on-the-base-operating-system.adoc

The `{foreman-maintain} packages` command restarts some services on the operating system where you run it because it runs the `{foreman-installer}` command after installing packages.
====

You can manage packages using `{foreman-maintain} packages` command as follows:

* To install packages on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-install} _package_1_ _package_2_
----
* To check for available package updates on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-check-update}
----
* To update all packages on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-update}
----
* To update specific packages on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-update} _package_1_ _package_2_
----

Updating packages individually can lead to package inconsistencies on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.

> For more information about updating packages on {ProjectServer}, see {UpdatingDocURL}updating-project-to-next-minor-version[Updating {ProjectServer} to the Next Minor Version] in _{UpdatingDocTitle}_.

Reviewer: Linkchecker is unable to check anchors. It can only detect if the page exists

> For more information about updating packages on {ProjectServer}, see {UpdatingDocURL}updating-project-to-next-minor-version[Updating {ProjectServer} to the Next Minor Version] in _{UpdatingDocTitle}_.

Author: Also, in Local Browser Build, the anchor does not work for unpublished versions.

====

> .Procedure

Author: Thanks. I overlooked that the procedure is sequential.
Agree and applied the above sequence.

* To install packages on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-install} _package_1_ _package_2_
----

> * To check the packages update on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To check for available package updates on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
```

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-check-update}
----
* To update specific packages on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-update} _package_1_ _package_2_
----

> * To update all packages on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}:

Reviewer: In my mind it's more logical first recommend updating all packages and only then specific packages, but I'll let other writers weigh in on that.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @ekohl.

Author: Addressed :+1:

+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {project-package-update} _package_1_ _package_2_
----

> Updating packages individually can lead to package inconsistencies in {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Updating packages individually can lead to package inconsistencies on {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.
```

> For more information about updating packages in {ProjectServer}, see {UpdatingDocURL}updating-project-to-next-minor-version[Updating {ProjectServer} to the Next Minor Version] in _{UpdatingDocTitle}_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about updating packages on {ProjectServer}, see {UpdatingDocURL}updating-project-to-next-minor-version[Updating {ProjectServer} to the Next Minor Version] in _{UpdatingDocTitle}_.
```

# {package-update-project}
----

.Using yum to Check for Package Updates
If you want to check for updates using `yum`, enter the command to install and update packages manually and then you can use `yum` to check for updates:
.Enabling yum for {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServerTitle} Package Management
If you want to install and update packages on your system using `yum` directly and control the stability of the system yourself, enter the following command:

[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
# yum check update

> # {foreman-maintain} packages lock

Reviewer: This was intentionally specified as a single command. We want things to be locked again. If you split it in separate chapters there's a big chance people forget it.

Author: Makes sense. Well, I had other options but it seems the current one fits better of all.
Is it good to close this PR?

Author: Also, we can remove `Enabling yum for Satellite Server or Capsule Server Package Management` and `Restoring Package Management to the Default Settings` and reword the `Using yum to Check for Package Updates`

> After enabling `yum`, if you want to check for updates using `yum`, enter the command to install and update packages manually, and then you can use `yum` to check for updates:

Author: We have omitted these lines.

# {package-update-project}
----

> .Using yum to manage packages

Author: That heading was for just `update`. Here what I mean for `managing packages` is install, update, remove.

> If you want to manage packages using `yum`, for example to check for packages update, enter the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to manage packages using `yum`, for example to check for package updates, enter the following command:
```

[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock

> # yum check-update

Reviewer 3: Tested on EL7.9: :heavy_check_mark:

# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
# yum check update
# yum check-update
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock
----

Updating packages individually can lead to package inconsistencies in {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer}.
For more information about updating packages in {ProjectServer}, see {UpgradingDocURL}updating_satellite_server_to_next_minor_version[Updating {ProjectServer}].

.Enabling yum for {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServerTitle} Package Management
If you want to install and update packages on your system using `yum` directly and control the stability of the system yourself, enter the following command:

[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages unlock
----

.Restoring Package Management to the Default Settings
If you want to restore the default settings and enable {ProjectServer} or {SmartProxyServer} to prevent users from installing and updating packages with `yum` and ensure the stability of the system, enter the following command:

[options="nowrap" subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# {foreman-maintain} packages lock

> ----

Author: After carefully reading your view, IMO we can go with `foreman-maintain` wrapper avoiding `lock-unlock` commands. 

As per above, the `dnf install` stops the {Project} service and re-runs `{foreman-installer}` which I guess, can hurt.

> ----

Reviewer: > As per above, the `dnf install` stops the {Project} service and re-runs `{foreman-installer}` which I guess, can hurt.

No, `dnf install` is not allowed by default when the protector plugin is enabled. That is why the unlock/lock commands are there. And why we have the `package-install-project` attribute in our documentation.

To me it's clear that the whole feature is not understood by the documentation team, given the constant source of confusion around it. Perhaps that should be a signal we should document what it does and why it does it. First I thought it's something we need in our writers' doc, but perhaps just as a user doc.

> ----

Author: So `{foreman-maintain} packages check-update` does locking and unlocking for us? If it does, we can make changes even at `proc_creating-a-local-source-for-a-custom-file-type-repository.adoc`

> ----

Author: @ekohl can we proceed further with the above view?

> ----

Reviewer: > So `{foreman-maintain} packages check-update` does locking and unlocking for us?

The code implies it should, but I never tried it myself.

> If it does, we can make changes even at `proc_creating-a-local-source-for-a-custom-file-type-repository.adoc`

Possibly, but that's also a content strategy aspect I wouldn't pull into this PR.

I think it makes sense introduce `{package-check-update-project}` attribute that does the right thing. Then restructure this whole chapter "Using yum to manage packages". That way the whole file becomes a manual on `foreman-maintain packages`.

> ----

Author: Tested capability of `locking/unlocking` :+1: 

![satellite update package](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/assets/101559972/1b84bc1e-558d-4bdd-a31e-b39ff69234b9)

Also, I think we should not recommend using `yum` in documentation atleast for managing packages as we explicitly state that in the very first paragraph. Hence, I removed those 3 sections of yum completely and accommodated the check update step in the procedure itself.

Added the attributes for `check-update`.
